INGREDIENTS
½ cup Unsweetened Rice Milk
1 teaspoon Apple Cider Vinegar
1 cup Pastry Flour
2 Tbsp Nutritional Yeast
½ Tbsp Baking Powder
¼ teaspoon Baking Soda
½ heaping teaspoon Sea Salt
½ teaspoon Caster Sugar
2 Tbsp Nuttelex Vegan Spread
2 Tbsp Finely Diced Bottled Jalapeno
2 Tbsp Finely Diced Sun-dried Tomato
¼ cup diced Vegan Cheddar
Extra sun dried tomato, cheddar and dried Parsley for topping before baking
INSTRUCTIONS
Preheat oven to 210 degrees Celsius. Line a baking tray with non-stick paper. Set aside.
Add apple cider vinegar to rice milk, whisk and set aside for 10 minutes.
Mix pastry flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt and caster sugar together in a bowl. Add cold Nuttelex vegan spread into the dry ingredients and immediately place the entire bowl into the freezer for 15 minutes to further harden the vegan butter up.
After 15 minutes, remove from the freezer and use fingers or a pastry cutter to combine the Nuttelex into the flour mixture until only small pieces remain and it looks like sand. Work quickly so the butter doesn’t get too warm.
Then add jalapeños, sun dried tomato and vegan cheddar chunks and toss.
Make a well in the dry ingredients and, using a fork, stir gently while pouring in the almond milk mixture ¼ cup at a time. You may not need all of it. Stir until just slightly combined – it will be sticky.
Turn onto a lightly floured surface, dust the top with a bit of flour and then very gently turn the dough over on itself 5-6 times – hardly kneading.
Form into a 1-inch thick disc, handling as little as possible.
Cut dough into four equal portions and place on prepared baking sheet.
Next brush the tops with a bit more of melted non-dairy butter and gently press a small divot in the center using two fingers. This will also help them rise evenly, so the middle won’t form a dome.
Sprinkle with additional grated cheese, sun-dried tomato and dried parsley.
Bake for 10-15 minutes or until fluffy and slightly golden brown. Serve immediately.
Let remaining biscuits cool completely before storing them in an airtight container or bag. Will keep for a couple of days at room temperature.

Source: http://www.crazyvegankitchen.com/vegan-cheddar-biscuits/
