Rating: 8/10
Comments: Actually pretty good

Ingredients:

Chocolate Cookie Crust

24 chocolate sandwich cookies
4 tablespoons vegan butter, melted
Chocolate Pudding

8 ounces silken tofu
1/4 cup cocoa powder
1/8 teaspoon sea salt
1/4 cup powdered cane sugar, divided
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
Coconut Whipped Cream

3/4 cup coconut cream, chilled
1/4 cup powdered cane sugar
Topping

6 chocolate sandwich cookies, crumbled
Directions:

Preheat oven to 350. Place the bowl and mixer you'll use to whip the cream in the freezer to chill.
Line the bottom of a 9-inch round cake pan with parchment paper, and cut out 4 strips to lay across the pan - this will simplify removing the pie from the pan, which is important. Liberally grease the exposed sides of the pan and all parchment.
Place 24 oreos in a food processor and process until fine crumbs form. Pour in the melted vegan butter.
Press the cookie crumbs into the prepared pan, pushing it into the bottom and up the sides.
Bake for 7 minutes. Allow to cool completely (I placed mine in the freezer while I prepared the remaining ingredients).
Rinse out your food processor, and then fill with the tofu, cocoa powder, powdered sugar, and sea salt. Process until smooth.
Meanwhile, bring a small pan of water to a simmer. Place a glass bowl on top with the chocolate chips, and allow to melt, using a rubber spatula to stir occasionally.
Pour the melted chocolate into the tofu mixture, and pulse until smooth. Place the mixture in the refrigerator while you make the coconut whipped cream.
Remove the chilled mixing bowl and mixer from the refrigerator, and add the coconut cream. Whip on high until soft peaks begin to form, and then add the remaining 1/4 cup powdered sugar. Whip again until incorporated and you see soft peaks.
Fold together the coconut whipped cream and the chocolate mixture, careful not to overmix. Spoon the mixture into the cooled pie crust, and use the back of a spoon to spread evenly. Freeze for 20 minutes to simplify cutting/serving, or place in the refrigerator until ready to eat.
Cut the pie into 12 slices, using the strips of parchment paper to gently lift the pieces out of the pan, and a spatula to transfer to a plate. They will be a little fragile, so work carefully.
Crumble the remaining oreos on top after slicing (it's more difficult to slice the pie with the oreos on top). Store covered in the fridge.

Source: http://veggieandthebeastfeast.com/2015/01/07/vegan-dirt-cake-pie/
